Fps first party (#1113)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/photoniq/fingerprinting/integrate-fingerprint.md

## First-party Integration Benefits

For the most accurate identification, the browser must consider the Fingerprint script as “first party”. This accrues several benefits:

- Significant increase in accuracy in browsers with strict privacy features such as Safari or Firefox.
- First-party cookies can live longer in the browser and extend the lifetime of visitor IDs. For a more detailed explanation of how this affects cookies, refer to [First- and Third-Party Cookies](first-third-party-cookie.md).
- Ad blockers will not block the Fingerprint agent from loading. Attempts to connect to an external URL will be stopped by most ad blockers while attempts to connect to the same site URL will be allowed.
- Ad blockers will not block Fingerprint identification requests, because they are sent to the specified path or subdomain that belongs to the same site.

## Integration Options

There are two strategies for integrating Fingerprint as a first party:

- (Recommended) Set up a cloud proxy using a tool such as Akamai, Cloudflare, or Nginx.
- Set up a subdomain

> Either strategy requires coordination with your Macrometa partner, because there needs to be an administrator on both sides in order to map the URLs for first-party integration.

Reviewer: @lohaniabhishek what high-level task MM perform? DNS challenge

:::note
With the release of Safari 16.4, cookie lifetime in Safari is reduced to 7 days when using the custom subdomain setup. We recommend using a cloud proxy integration to have cookies last up to one year in Safari.
:::

### Cloud Proxy Setup

> For first-party integration, you must ensure all traffic to the PhotonIQ server comes from your company's domain.  This is accomplished by redirecting all traffic to the server using a cloud proxy such as Akamai.

Reviewer: `This is accomplished by redirecting forwarding traffic to the server using a cloud proxy such as Akamai`

Make sure you have the following permissions:

- x
- x

Perform the following steps:

1. x
2. x
3. x

#### Akamai Proxy Integration

As an example, here are the steps to set up an Akamai proxy.

If your plan supports then add property so that calls to the path `{your-website}/api/ds/*` are forwarded to `fps.photoniq.macrometa.io`.

1. Log in to https://control.akamai.com/.

> 2. In the **Properties** section, search for the property of the required URL. Add one if it doesn't exist already.

Reviewer 2: What is the "required" URL?

Author: Heck if I know. @lohaniabhishek ?

Reviewer: 'required url' will be the client's URL they are configuring for FPS to work on.

Author: How's this?

3. For the selected property, navigate to the **Property Configuration Settings** and add a new rule named `Fingerprint Forward Rule`.
4. Add a new **Criteria** in the rules as `IF Path matches one of /api/ds/*`.
5. In the **Behaviors** section, set the **Origin Server Hostname** to be the PhotonIQ server.
6. Enable the **True Client IP Header** option in the property configuration for the Fingerprint Forward Rule.
7. Name the **True Client IP Header** option `True-Client-IP`.

### Subdomain Setup

This process requires adding DNS records to your site. Make sure you have the following permissions:

- Necessary access permission to the DNS service to be able to create the DNS record under that subdomain

> - A valid TLS certificate for the subdomain.

Reviewer: will it be valid for other customers?
Better to be vague

> - A valid SSL certificate for the domain. If using Let’sEncrypt, need to do the DNS challenge

Reviewer 2: I would not include Let's Encrypt stuff here.  Why speak of one of many different ways of doing it here.  And this does not even explain it.  It mentions one step of the many steps you have to do to get a lets encrypt certificate.

Author: So should I mention something about, "If your certificate is encrypted, then you might need to do a DNS challenge."?

> - A valid SSL certificate for the domain. If using Let’sEncrypt, need to do the DNS challenge

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A valid TLS certificate for the subdomain.
```

> If you are integrating Fingerprint outside of a cloud proxy, then you must create subdomain and alias it to the PhotonIQ server. This process requires adding a DNS records to your domain server:

Reviewer: @lohaniabhishek re-read

1. Create a subdomain off of your domain that points to the fps server.
2. Set up the subdomain as an alias record, pointing it to the fps server.

> 3. Get a valid SSL certificate for the domain. If using a product like Let’sEncrypt, then you need to do the DNS challenge.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Get a valid TLS certificate for the domain.
```

Reviewer 2: We might want to mention what to do with the TLS certificate.

Author: Probably. So, what should we do with the TLS certificate?

---
sidebar_position: 25
title: Integrate Fingerprint as First Party
---

For the best accuracy and results when using PhotonIQ Fingerprint, ensure both the application and cookies are integrated as first-party elements. This integration means their URLs must match the website they're associated with.

Privacy is a crucial concern for many users. However, tools designed to protect user privacy, such as ad blockers and privacy-focused browsers, might interfere with Fingerprinting processes. These tools can block requests to Fingerprint servers, potentially preventing the identification of all visitors to your site.

For more information about privacy and cookies, refer to [First- and Third-Party Cookies](first-third-party-cookie.md).

## How the Fingerprint Agent Works on Your Website

The Fingerprint agent, once installed on your website, performs several key actions:

> - **Downloads the Latest Device Intelligence Algorithm**: This ensures the most up-to-date method is used for identifying devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Downloads the Latest Device Intelligence Script**: This ensures the most up-to-date method is used for identifying devices.
```

- **Collects and Sends Browser Attributes**: The agent sends collected data to the Fingerprint server and receives a unique visitor ID in return, facilitating accurate visitor identification.

> - **Makes Additional Requests**: These requests further enhance the accuracy of visitor identification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Makes Additional Requests**: These requests further enhance the accuracy of visitor identification by using advanced identification algorithm on the server side.
```

## Challenges from Ad Blockers and Privacy Browsers

Ad blockers (such as Adblock, uBlock Origin) and browsers with a focus on privacy (like Brave) actively block requests to Fingerprint servers. They do this by maintaining a list of Fingerprint domains and blocking browser requests that match these domains. Additionally, some VPN providers might block access to our domains at the DNS level, further complicating the identification process.

> To ensure the best performance and minimize disruptions, consider advising users on configuring their privacy tools to allow your site's Fingerprinting processes. This approach helps balance user privacy with the need for accurate visitor identification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure the best performance and minimize disruptions, you should integrate PhotonIQ Fingerprinting as a first-party service in your website.
```

Integrating the PhotonIQ Fingerprint script as first-party on your browser offers significant advantages:

- **Accuracy Improves in Privacy-Focused Browsers**: Integration as first-party greatly increases accuracy in browsers with strict privacy settings like Safari and Firefox, ensuring the Fingerprint script operates effectively within these environments.
- **Extended Visitor ID Lifespan and Ad Blocker Compatibility**: First-party cookies have a longer lifespan, which helps maintain visitor IDs over time. Additionally, since ad blockers typically allow connections to the same site's URLs, integrating the Fingerprint agent as first-party prevents it from being blocked, ensuring uninterrupted operation.
- **Increased Security Against Fraudsters**: Making Fingerprint usage harder to detect for fraudsters adds an extra layer of security, safeguarding your data and the integrity of the identification process.

## Integration Options

There are two primary strategies for integrating Fingerprint as a first party, each requiring coordination with your Macrometa partner to ensure proper URL mapping for first-party integration.

### Cloud Proxy Setup (Recommended)

> Use a cloud proxy service like Akamai, Cloudflare, or Nginx for first-party integration. This method involves redirecting traffic to the PhotonIQ server through a proxy hosted on your domain or subdomain, such as `metrics.yourwebsite.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a cloud proxy service like Akamai, Cloudflare, or Nginx for first-party integration. This method involves forwarding traffic to the PhotonIQ server through a proxy hosted on your domain or subdomain, such as `metrics.yourwebsite.com`.
```
